# Elpis
Natural calamities are destructible, yet unavoidable. It is not possible to dodge them, but the impact of these Acts of God can be minimized by deploying strategic planning and effective mitigation methodologies. Elpis, which translates to hope aims to strive for better human and material resource management during situations of tension by providing technology based solutions.
IoT is a modern conglomerate of technology, offering feasible wireless low power connectivity. We propose to harness it by using such chips, which can detect the impact of disaster in a given region. These technologies can be incorporated with street lights, traffic signals, and signal towers to relay the damage data to a local server which can be further uploaded on a cloud-based server.
The impact analysis can be determined by sensors. This data along with population density maps can be tapped to estimate the damage and optimize food and other resource management. This data can be extended to get the approximate mortality by using the past data sets, to get the overview of the situation and manage relief strategies.
The chips, which can provide geo-location (without GPS) can be used to find an optimal air-traffic pathway for relief supply material. This data ca be further transmitted to redirect and alert other commercial and non-commercial air traffic, so as to not interfere with relief material supply. Generally destruction by natural disasters in aggravated by electricity discharge (especially in floods and tsunami) from power house, the acquired data can further trigger a cascade of technology to shut down the power houses and minimize the damage.
Additionally, a mobile/web application to mark oneself safe and get the statistics and government support status can be developed for the causalities.
The aforementioned proposal which seems to be practical will be subjected to improvements and finesse, owing to the fact that it is still in its embryo state.
